A book titled “Great Boss, Dead Boss”
— a friend recommended that I read this
book, he told me he had found it interesting.
I haven’t read THAT book yet.
But, along very similar lines, I read another
book titled “That Boss” / “This Boss" and we are going to see a few excerpts from that book!
Namaste!
“Nalla Mudhalaali, Enga Mudhalaali” — isn’t
that how that popular song goes?
So, there is this book, called “Good Boss,
Bad Boss”.
We have seen this author before — Robert
Sutton.
We saw him in the “No Asshole Rule”.
We have seen a few excerpts from that other
book.
The same person who wrote that book, he has
come up with another interesting book..
This book was so interesting, any random page
you jump into, just pick any page you want,
and voila, you would find four useful tips,
you would find one interesting story, you
can internalise it, implement it, that day!
Whether you are a Boss, whether you are working
under a Boss, or whether you are going to
soon become a Boss, there is a lot you can
learn from this book.
I am going to just cherrypick a few interesting
aspects from this, and share them with you.
Do you remember this scene?
In The Mahabharatha?
Author Shri Jeyamohan has been retelling this
story under the title “Venmurasu”.
I have been reading it with my Mom, one chapter
a day.
And, very recently, we passed through that
really disheartening phase, where Draupadi
is insulted in public.
I really don’t know if it was Draupadi who
was insulted, or all of Indian Culture.
But, that is what happened.
A couple of chapters after that, after all
is said and done, and after much regret, much
fighting, much anger, at the end of it all,
when they are introspecting about it, Dharma,
Yudhishtra, makes a very interesting observation.
He says, “I have committed unpardonable
sins.
I shouldn’t have gambled.
And, more important, I shouldn’t have placed
my wife as the wager.
But, even from such a disaster, I think I
am able to garner a little benefit.”…
He continues.
“I learned what people really thought about
me.
Eldest brother among five.
I am the king of Hasthinapuri.
Everybody had already labeled me ‘Dharma’
(The Righteous).
I could do no wrong.
I am the big boss.
I am the incarnation of God himself.
That is what they called me.
Praised me no end.
And, made me float in false pride.
And, only when this happened, people opened
their mouths.
The subjects in the court started commenting.
My younger brothers, who never ever crossed
my line, the line I drew, they shouted at
me.
Only then did I realise all the mistakes I
was committing.” he says.
“My wife too.
I have never seen her talk back at me like
that.
That is when I learned.”
So, as a boss, this is something you are going
to find very difficult.
What is it like to work with a person like
this guy, or this woman?
Find a way to somehow understand that.
More often than not, you are seen as a jerk,
says Robert Sutton.
How are you going to avoid that perception?
Take care!
There is this book called The Inner Game of
Tennis.
And another book, exactly like this one, featuring
another sport, called Zen in the Art of Archery.
In both these books, the essence is the same.
The focus is not on hitting the ball with
the racquet or piercing the target with the
arrow.
No.
That is NOT the focus.
The effort that you have to spend is in the
little things.
The positioning of the feet, the planning
of where to move to at the same time the opponent
is swinging his racquet, realising what surface
we are playing on, sensing the direction and
speed of the wind, being perfectly relaxed
when the bow is pulled taut, being perfectly
balanced, if you focus on all these the right
way, if you do these perfectly, you don’t
even need to see the ball, or see the target,
if you release, it will hit the target!
Both the books echo this same philosophy.
Do the process very well, the results will
automatically happen.
The little advice that I would like to take
away from this?
As a boss, you don’t need to always float
in the clouds or always have big dreams, and
think of motivating your team with some lofty
goals.
Little things done well, day to day things
done well, they will perform the magic and
surprise you — says Robert Sutton.
The thousand little things matter more than
that one big thing.
Many people make the mistake of forgetting
about these thousand little things.
In Baahubali, do you remember Sivakami Devi?
“Idhuvey En Kattalai, En Kattalaiye Saasanam”…
Are you going to be assertive like that?
When are the times you are going to allow
other people to probably have second opinions?
And when are the times you are going to rule
with an iron hand?
Probably that is the hardest art to master
— says Robert Sutton.
If you look at the robot hand, you have to
hold on to it, you can’t let it slip.
You can’t hold on too tightly too.
It might break.
That is the logic which is the hardest to
do when doing the algorithms for the grip
of the metal fingers of a prosthetic hand,
it seems.
Management is pretty similar.
How do you manage?
How do you convince people?
How do you persuade them?
Without making them feel you are ruling with
an iron hand…
You have to wear a velvet glove. — he says.
Some of you may remember this story.
A person is having a conversation with God.
Of how he noticed the footsteps of God walking
alongside him, as he walked his life path.
He thanks God for the company, but then, he
complains.
“I was very sad, devastated, at a point
in my life.
Suffered too much, battered, struggling, all
alone.
Where were you at that time?
I could see only one set of footprints in
the sand.” he asks God.
His response is poignant, though.
“I was with you all along,” He says, “…and
seeing you suffer too much, I decided to raise
you over to my back and carry you along for
a while”.
This…
Being the Human Shield is something every
manager should master.
Or, even worse, they could be barbs from from
top management.
How are you going to be that Human Shield??
How will you be the protective fort, how will
you be the human shield, to protect, and ensure
they get to do their work without distractions
and disturbances — that is an art you have
to master if you want to be a good Manager!
He then talks about two important phrases.
The first one is “Creative Incompetence”.
We have seen about the Imposter Syndrome.
Incompetence…
Probably I don’t know how to do this.
Probably I will never be able to do this.
Others don’t know this yet, but I am not
actually competent in this…
That Imposter Syndrome — Try turning it
around.
How about looking at yourself as incompetent
in something that you are actually proficient
in!
That is the path to learning constantly.
Becoming better every day.
So, start with a stance that says “Am I
such an idiot that I don’t know I am an
idiot”?
That is the phrase he uses.
Be feeling always, that you are incompetent.
That is Creative Incompetence.
That is another tip he gives.
The second very useful phrase that I gathered
from this book was something called Malicious
Compliance.
What is Compliance?
Ok, is this the process, is this the rule?
Okay, I shall do it as you say.
Malicious?
Something that could lead to trouble.
Something that could damage.
So, in this picture here, the brother wants
his sister to save a little bit of everything.
And, her sister is performing malicious compliance!
In a small paper plate, she lines up small
crumbs of bread, corn, pea, ham, … Isn’t
that what you wanted me to do?!
Malicious Compliance.
Here is another example.
If you break this seal, it automatically means
you have agreed to the End User License Agreement…
says the cover.
But, our genius has sliced the bottom side
open, and extracted the CD..!
What is this trying to convey?
What does Malicious Compliance really mean
here?
It means, as a boss, sometimes, you MAY have
to follow processes.
You MAY have to do some routines and some
regular stuff.
And it is actually detrimental to your team.
It is being an obstacle.
How are you going to escalate it, and report
it to top management?
You cannot say “I won’t comply!”
So, comply to the letter.
Do exactly as told.
Demonstrate the dangerous side-effects of
doing so, to your top management!
Make them understand!
Beware!
This is pretty risky behaviour!
This is when I should also be adding “Don’t
try this at home”!
But, I thought this was a very powerful phrase,
to absorb from this book.
Malicious Compliance.
There was this king called King Canute.
Many many many years ago.
In England.
The courtiers used to praise him too much.
You are the best.
You are the greatest.
You are the world’s most amazing king.
One day, he asked them to take him to the
seashore, and took all his subjects along,
and he asked to be placed on his throne, at
the water’s edge.
And he asked, “What do you guys think?
That incoming tide, .. twice a day..
Do you think I can stop it by ordering it
to stop?”
And the courtiers responded with, “Of course,
nothing or nobody can violate your word.
Of course it will stop!”.
Okay, he said, and tried stopping it.
It didn’t work.
The water slowly came in, high tide, and wet
his feet.
He turned around towards everybody and spoke,
“All ye dimwits, do you understand now?
There is only one God..
Up above.
I am not all-powerful as you think”.
So, one of the things a manager has to tell
himself or herself is, “Be bold enough,
courageous enough, strong enough, to face
any criticism.
But be also, realistic enough, practical enough,
humble enough, to know you are not all-powerful”.
Again, it is a toss-up.
When I hear the word “Toss up”, I am reminded
of Quotidian 371.
In this, we saw about being liberal or being
conservative.
Another beautiful lesson from this book is
“Fight as if you are right, listen as if
you are wrong!”
What you give outside, what you receive inside.
Listen as if you are wrong.
When you are giving out your opinion, of course
you will have to be bold, you have to be insightful,
you have to be pretty confident about it.
But, have you done talking?
Are you receiving opinions from the others?
Start then from the vantage point of “Probably
you are wrong!”
In the Viet Nam war, when the Americans were
fighting there, they had all these funny acronyms.
Situation Normal All Fouled Up.
(There is another word too, for F..
Be my guest!)
Situation Unchanged, Still Fouled Up.
Totally And Royally Fouled Up.
Fouled Up Beyond Belief.
Fouled Up Beyond All Recognition.
There is a BOHICAL — I will let you Google
for it yourself!
So, mistakes will always happen.
Situation Normal — All Fouled Up.
So, how does a manager handle, when somebody
in their team commits a mistake?
Mistakes can happen in one of three ways.
The first way?
Well, it could be an Accident.
By mistake.
Unexpectedly.
In that case, try to understand if there is
a Process Failure.
The person who did the mistake is not to be
blamed completely, if it were an accident.
Check if you can put a process in place to
ensure such an accident doesn’t recur ever.
That should be your focus.
What is the other reason a problem could have
happened?
He may not, she may not, KNOW how to do that
work.
Inability.
I don’t have the capacity to do it.
I am not skilled enough.
Are they to be blamed for it?
It is you, as the manager, who should take
the Training effort seriously!
Before delegating, teach!
That is again pointing back at you, the Manager.
Oh yeah, there could be this third reason.
There could be Evil Intent.
Just to get you a bad name, just to denigrate
the company and its brand, there may be miscreants
trying to do this.
EVEN THAT, points back at you.
Because, guess who recruited them in the first
place?
It was you who handpicked them!
Interviewed them!
So, search well, spot well!
It finally comes back to you.
When you see somebody making a mistake, analyse,
look inwards, and find a solution for that.
And finally, Mahatma Gandhi’s quotation
comes to mind.
That the Bad is much stronger than the Good.
It is not about what amazing superstars you
have in your team.. that is going to determine
how high your team rises..
What are the bad apples in your team?
What are the ones who are going to bring your
team down?
That little drop of poison that will spoil
the whole bowl of milk… obsess about those
little drops.
Locate them.
Remove them!
Also, it could be inwards.
It is okay even if you don’t have any amazing
good qualities!
But first, chase out those few BAD qualities
you have inside you.
That is another way to look at it too!
What is the closing thought here?
I have been talking about “boss, boss, boss”
all along.
But, frankly speaking, “Boss” is such
a hated word in my vocabulary.
I hate it when somebody calls me, “Boss…”!
Today, while researching for this video, I
started understanding where that hatred was
coming from!
I went looking for the etymology for the word.
Boss is from a Dutch word.
“baas”.
And, what does that mean?
A slave-driver.
A master who whips his slaves to obedience.
That is the root-word for “boss”.
Master.
I am a slave.
Bid me.
I will do what you say.
No!
That’s not what we want to be!
We want to be leaders!
And, who is a leader?
He leads the way, into danger, into trouble,
into opportunities and challenges.
He shows the way.
He leads.
Prefer to be a Leader, than to be a Hated
Boss.
Thank you!